most companies either don't have a blog
or spend minimal time and resources on
it because they don't think it will
drive meaningful results but what if I
told you your blog could be one of your
best marketing assets working around the
clock to drive quality traffic and
pipeline this is exactly how we've
helped B2B SAS Tech and service
companies like avents a click house and
check writers to multiply their
qualified organic traffic their pipeline
their leads and their revenue in this
video I'm going to share the exact
strategy to build a revenue driving blog
for your B2B SAS Tech or Service Company
let's dive in so first things first you
want to set out a solid foundation for
your blog strategy you want to Define
your money keywords what the hex a money
keyword well a money keyword is a
commercial High sales intent keyword
that someone would search on Google when
they're almost ready to have a sales
conversation book a demo take a sign up
or speak to a sales rep around around
your solution software or your service
so one of the easiest ways to build out
your money keywords initially before you
do any blog crafting writing or
designing is to fire up a Google sheet
or an Excel sheet and split up into four
main columns I usually go offer column 1
industry column 2 competitors column 3
and jobs to be done column four so first
and foremost column 1 is your main
offers so how do folks refer to your
solution your software or your service
so as an example here if you provide
proposal software folks might call it
proposal software proposal tools
proposal platforms or a bunch of others
so list down column one all the ways
that folks could refer to your solution
column two is the main industries that
you serve so companies that you've
historically sectors you've historically
sold well into have that juicy expensive
problem you solve that are motivated to
solve that problem have no issue at all
affording the solution and want to
invest so check your pipeline check your
previous one deals for those Industries
you serve well could be sales teams HR
fintech Finance you're likely going to
know this by digging three-year-old CRM
data that's column two column three is
the competitors all those competitors
that come up on sales cost to an almost
annoying extent always mentioned so if
you provided proposal software it might
be tools like proposify Panda do get
accept quiller some of the big names in
that space and then the last fourth
column is your dream client jobs to be
done well their struggling moments where
do they usually get to when they're
either trying to do something inh house
but reaching a bit of a Tipping Point
where they may be losing cash flow
churning staff or kind of really
struggling so it might be on the
proposal writing space how to build a
winning sales proposal in Google Sheets
or with word docs or how to write
proposals that convert or how to close
more sales deals or how to craft quotes
that turn into Revenue if you can mine
sales calls prospecting calls customer
success calls you can get those GC
insights so what you want to do once
you've made your list of offer
Industries competitors and jobs to be
done we want to build out longtail
keywords our Dream clients are going to
be searching for when they have a good
level of sales intent to either book
that demo take that sales cool take that
sign up or whatever our conversion point
is so if we start with column one
proposal software we might turn those
keywords into things like best proposal
software best proposal tools or best
proposal platform in our example but
yours could be relevant to your service
or your offer but what you'll find is
keywords like best proposal software or
best X solution or best X service are
usually some of the hardest to rank so
those might be articles that will build
with a long-term mindset and slowly chip
away at ranking those and maybe even
driving quality links to those to build
those up over time but we'll go for
longer taale keywords initially by doing
our column 1 plus column 2 so offer plus
industry which usually tend to rank a
bit faster so that could be proposal
software for sales teams or proposal
software for fintech or best proposal
software for HR as an example then
moving on to the next strategy
competitive keywords super good because
in the B2B space especially folks rarely
go for the first solution they hear
about they normally make a short list of
three or four vendors before taking that
decision biting the bullet and investing
so they will Google things like
competitor Alternatives or competive
pricing or competitor 1 versus
competitor 2 and these keywords you can
actually rank with a solid article as
quick as 30 days we have in the past but
often in 90 days or so they can start
ranking nicely so that in the proposal
space is a clear example it could be
things like pandadoc Alternatives or get
accept pricing or quiller reviews or it
could be competitor one versus
competitor 2 like Panda do versus get
accept and then you position your new
offer as a third option and you
basically talk about kind of where they
fall short your differentiators and how
your best place to serve the market or
the last one is jobs to be done so using
almost how to or what is base terms a
little bit higher up the funnel a lot of
these we talked about a lower funnel to
drive sales intent these are more kind
of earlier stage things so like we
talked about earlier how to write
proposals that convert or how to build
sales proposals within word doc or
within Google Docs or those kind of
things those struggling moments those
ways that prospects often get the job
done that are a bit cumbersome that they
usually struggle with you hear on sales
schools where you can position your
product as a painkiller so once you've
exhausted all those all those terms all
those main columns build out those
longtail keywords exhaust them so you're
really exhausting that bottom of the
sales funnel run them through a tool
like HS or Sam rush to see if they've
got a little bit of traffic volume
behind them don't be worried tons of
traffic cuz usually the higher sales
commercial intent keywords tend to be
lower traffic but much higher proponent
much higher chance to actually be likely
to already have that sales convo take
that demo or take that next step and
once you've built out your exhaustive
list of money keywords you want to map
those keywords to each stage of the
buying Journey funnel so I usually
recommend starting with the bottom of
the funnel first as those will be folks
that are most likely to ready to have
that sales conversation or take that
next step so those will be things like
competive Alternatives competive pricing
competitor one versus competive 2 or
best X solution I.E best proposal
software best proposal tools best
proposal platforms all those kind of
things in the middle of the funnel that
could be maybe folks that are earlier on
perhaps comparing options maybe they
want to look at assets to kind of get
that next level of trust where you can
nurture them along the funnel so those
midf funnel keywords could be things
like let's say in The Proposal space
like sell proposal checklist or sales
proposal templates or sales proposals
cheat sheets those kind of things where
you giving someone quite a useful asset
or Ultimate Guide or breakdown where
they can get the content maybe when they
land on your article they'll conse a
YouTube video that you've embedded in
there or a podcast and maybe even you'll
prompt them to download a really useful
cheat sheet where you can start then
nurturing them via email or retargeting
them if they're going on to YouTube or
retirement via LinkedIn and then earlier
kind of more topfunnel jobs to be done
based keyword those could be things like
how to and then struggling moments so
like we talked about earlier how to
build a winning sales proposal within
Google Docs most of the time you're
leveraging those insights that you're
getting from prospecting sales or
customer success calls to know those
really expensive bleeding neck pain
points that you can then position into
articles that fix that struggling moment
that say you're probably getting it done
this way today costing you time money
you're churning staff whatever that pain
what is introduce Your solution this is
how we solve those issues here examples
of results social proof here's why we're
positioned to do it now look at taking
that next step or grabbing this asset or
whatever that might be so map out each
potential money keyword to a relevant
stage of the funnel so then you can have
Clarity on where they're at and the type
of content you need to build out so
we've built out our exhaustive list of
money keywords we've mapped each one to
funnel stage now we need to assess what
type of blog article or page that we
need to build in order to rank
effectively for this money keyword one
of the simplest ways to do that is to
quite literally Google one of the money
keywords you want to rank for in this
case I'm Googling fan engagement tools
and we recently managed to rank our
client B2B SAS company cortex Tech
organic position one for fan engagement
tools and all you do normally is You'
give you money keyword and see what type
of page is ranking well is it a how-to
article is it a product list schol like
the top five top 10 x Solutions of 2025
is it maybe an Alternatives page like we
reviewed the top 10 X or comp add
Alternatives is it a landing page or is
it something else see what type of pages
Google is favoring what is it showing
most in the organic non-sponsored
results and then you know what type of
page you need to build out in order to
rank effectively for your money keyword
so once you know the type of pages you
need to build out to rank for your money
keyword so the next thing to think about
before you build out the page structure
design and Main body of content is
technical SEO now in my opinion a lot of
technical SEO BS and you don't need to
overemphasize on it until you get to
websites with hundreds or even thousands
of pages and a lot of B2B Tech assassin
service sites are usually light on
content especially when they're starting
SEO so now the basics and you're going
to be just fine so what I'd recommend is
once you know your money keyword for
your Target page weave that into your
meta title and meta description so for
cortex Tech we've got the five best fan
engagement platforms for sport
organizations and also in them at a
description that shows up on the search
engine results page when we click into
the page we want our money keyword
within our URL for the page so that
might be yourdomain.com
slou hyphen money hyphen keyword so each
space in the keyword has a hyen to
separate it in this case we've got
cortex tech. i/b hyen fan hyphen
engagement hyphen platforms the next
piece is your H1 so your heading one tag
you only want one heading one tag per
page and that's usually in the hero top
Banner area of your article and again
weave in that money key word so in this
case for cortex the five best fan
engagement platforms for sports
organizations now after that other
things you want to consider on the
technical side of things is having a
page that loads nice and quick don't
overemphasize on page speed but ideally
the page loads in under two seconds you
can use a tool like page bead insights
to check out your performance on mobile
tablet and PC we want to make sure the
website of course has a nice UI nice ux
on mobile tablet and PC is easy to skim
enjoyable to read nice and visual but
aside from that those are the main
things that I'd recommend on the
technical front along with adding some
internal links on your page so in this
case it could be that we're linked to
supporting articles or supporting
landing pages that are relevant to the
topic that we're talking about reason we
do that is it makes it easier for Google
to crawl new pages if we've got internal
links from Pages linking back to us
maybe an article that links through to a
landing page or landing page that links
through to articles or several other
supporting articles on a relevant topic
that link back to us just makes it a bit
easier for Google to CW especially if
it's a newer page that you're publishing
to your site and a quick tip no matter
what topic you're writing about whether
it is a best of list a competitor
alternative or comparison page or maybe
you know what is or howto article get
with the subject matter experts on your
team that can give valuable insights on
this topic so not only can you rank well
but you can resonate with those dream
clients and you can convert them so if
you've got a sales team get with them
like wise if you got a CS customer
success and support team get them
involved or if not if you're the founder
then try and get some cool recordings
you can use tools like fathom to record
those prospecting those Discovery calls
those demo calls and more and turn those
into transcripts and then when you've
got juicy golden nuggets on the topic
make sure you're targeting those pain
points that are often brought up the
impact of those problems and pain points
and the end results the jobs to be done
the goals the motivations of your
prospects so when they land on your
article they know that you understand
their world you understand their
frustrations you understand the impact
of those frustrations and you can share
exactly how your product or your service
or your solution is the painkiller and
can help them get their desired results
now quick tip when it comes to cool to
actions on your articles is to consider
where your prospect might be in their
buying Journey when they land on your
page so for example right at the top of
the funnel more educational kind of
early stage problem searching so right
now I'm looking at Revenue Heroes
article who we did some work with a
while back they've got an article for
how to qualify a lead managing qualified
leads across the funnel so this is quite
an early stage top funnel educational
article while they'll give you tips on
how to qualify a lead position their
product as the solution but rather than
on their fixed call to action on the
left hand side of the page that's fixed
as you scroll rather than trying to
force a demo down in that they've got a
CTA to join their newsletter so it says
join the buyers Journey newsletter no
spam no selling just great SAS buying in
GTM nuggets delivered once a month so
it's a nice way to nurture prospects so
instead of saying look your only choice
here is to to book a demo we know your
early stage in your journey we know
you're probably trying to learn educate
entertain yourself early stage around
this topic have a look at our newsletter
give it a try we can keep in touch and
then eventually you might want to become
a customer or try a product or try a
service now yours could be a newsletter
yours could be a lead magnet could even
be guiding folks to your YouTube channel
or your podcast so that's kind of those
top funnel articles whereas if it was
later stage funnel I trying to rank for
best X solution or best X solution for
industry or even competitor based
keywords I'm looking at the top 10 chili
Piper Alternatives that Revenue hero
built out so bottom of funnel article in
this case their CTA is let's talk so
their fixed cool to action on this type
of article is increase your pipeline
conversions crb2b companies double their
Pipeline and then a CTA for let's talk
that will drive you straight through to
their demo booking calendar page so
understand where prospects are at in
their journey and then fix your CTA the
sidebar of your article based on where
they're at and likewise as they scroll
through the article you can have
relevant cool to actions and again make
sure it's nice and visual showing your
product in action you're weaving in
those trust signals that's social proof
so this article is not only helpful
educational useful but it is really a
sales page that's going to rank well
resonate well and ultimately Drive the
relevant conversion and one other thing
if you're in midf funnel you might look
to guide folks to some kind of lead
magnet cheat sheet Ultimate Guide or
something along those lines so if you
followed along so far you've nailed down
your money keywords you know the type of
pages you need to build to rank you know
how to blow those pages out the w you
know to rank to resonate build trust
with and convert your prospects into
pipeline leads and revenue if you want
to get ahead of giant competitors in
your industry the secret is to publish
money keyword content at scale a lot of
giant competitors in your industry are
going to be slow moving they've probably
got a big headcount and it can take them
weeks or even months to get Pages live
so they might build out their keyword
strategy they might have the process to
get signed off to build out the content
to then build out the page it might take
them a few more weeks to design it a few
more weeks to devit a few more weeks for
legal to sign off and by the time they
actually get a page live it could be
months down the line if you can move way
faster to do all these steps we've
outlined from building out money
keywords to building out best-in-class
pages with content shipping those live
and having a motivation to publish at
scale for these money keywords you can
start chipping away at those slow moving
giant competitors in your industry you
can start stealing organic traffic and
market share start driving a steady
stream of qualified pipeline leads and
revenue with your organic SEO play and
there you have it that's exactly how you
can write blog posts that drive
qualified leads and revenue but as you
probably know building out a Blog is
only one piece of the puzzle when it
comes to driving a successful SEO
program so if you're tired of seeing
competitors above you in organic search
results on Google or AI search meaning
they're stealing traffic qualified leads
Pipeline and Revenue day in day out why
not book a call with us over at breaking
bb.com we can chat through where you're
at now where you'd like to get through
and see if we can start driving
qualified pipeline for your B2B tech
service or SAS company as quickly as 90
days with SEO so book a call over at
breaking bb.com or hit the link in the
description below or if you're not ready
yet why not check out the breaking B2B
podcast or breaking B2B newsletter for
free SEO tips and with that I should
catch you on the next one cheers